# Capstone Project: Measuring Shopper Marketing Effectiveness

Language types: SQL, Python

- Description: For the capstone project of my Masters in Data Science, my team's client was a leading international consumer packaged goods (CPG) firm. We were tasked with assessing the effectiveness of their shopper marketing tactics using "big data" that they provided. Based on pre-existing literature on retail sales forecasting, I decided to develop a random forest model using walk-forward validation. My model ultimately outperformed our baseline/other competing models, and was accepted by our client for further development.
- Data: Our team was given access to over 30M rows of point-of-sale (POS) data between 2019-2021, as well as the dollar investment amounts and active timelines  of shopper marketing programs during this three-year window. Given the size of the datasets provided, we utilized Python to access their relational database via SQL queries. Further information on the data used is confidential, as our client asked to remain anonymous and their data is propietary. 
- Methods: Our team cleaned and aggregated the POS data at the weekly level before merging it with binary "active tactic" variables. Our process was to 1) fit a model as closely as possible to the actual sales observed, 2) produce a "baseline estimate" of sales without tactics by nulling our tactic variables, 3) determine the "sales lift" associated with tactics by subtracting actual sales observed from our "baseline estimate," and 4) measure return on investment for each tactic by aggregating "sales lift" during its active period/dividing it by the dollar investment amount for that tactic. We fit two model types to our timeseries data: a random forest regressor using walk-forward validation, and an ARIMA model.
- Results: The random forest model I produced significantly outperformed our naive baseline, as well as the competing ARIMA model. Our naive baseline was simply assigning T-1 sales as the time T estimate. This model was ultimately accepted by our client and is undergoing further optimization.
- Associated files: The data used for this project is proprietary, and is thus not included in this repository. The notebook used to produce our dataset, as well both the random forest/ARIMA models, is titled "NK_V4_ShopperMarketingMainNotebook(1).ipynb". This file is not publicly available for confidentiality reasons, but is selectively available on request. Please LinkedIn message me at https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholas-g-keeley/.
